Rotation Test Fixes + Rotation Calculation Fixes (#205)
COSIMA/regional-mom6: docs/angle_calculation.md

1. Figure out the longitudinal extent of our domain, or periodic range of longitudes. For global cases it is len_lon = 360, for our regional cases it is given by the hgrid.
2. At each ``t``-point on the `hgrid`, we find the four adjacent ``q``-points. We adjust each of these longitudes to be in the range of len_lon around the point itself. ({meth}`rotation.modulo_around_point <regional_mom6.rotation.modulo_around_point>`)

> 3. We then find the lon_scale, which is the "trigonometric scaling factor converting changes in longitude to equivalent distances in latitudes". What that means is we add the latitude of all four of these points from part 3, average it, and convert to radians. We then take the cosine of it. It's a factor we can use to convert a difference in longitude to equivalent latitude difference.

Reviewer: I don't understand the part 3 of the part **Boundary rotation algorithm** section. Meaning, I don't understand why the described process gives us the angle of rotation of the grid cell.

We are describing here what each line of the code we copied from MOM6 is but we don't give more insight to why this computes the angle I've been trying to understand why this works and I can't.

If we can understand why this computes the angle of the grid cell then let's explain it.
If we can't, then there is no need to document what each line of python code is. Code is sorta self-explanatory so this section of the docs does not add anything.

The fact that I wasn't able to understand it and also that it wasn't computing the correct rotation angle for a grid cell that I was constructing by hand via a rotation was making me skeptical when I was reviewing #193.

So I suggest either of the following:

- We remove the **Boundary rotation algorithm** section
- We ask whoever wrote the algorithm to explain to us and then we explain the algorithm in this section? I'm happy to ask, I just don't know who that is. Could we find from git blame of MOM6 code?

Author: Allright, responding to each part:

> I don't understand the part 3 of the part Boundary rotation algorithm section. Meaning, I don't understand why the described process gives us the angle of rotation of the grid cell.

I totally get that it can be hard to understand, I'll respond with some other sources/explanation that might be easier to understand in a day or so.

> If we can understand why this computes the angle of the grid cell then let's explain it.
> If we can't, then there is no need to document what each line of python code is. Code is sorta self-explanatory so this section of the docs does not add anything.
 I think the documentation here helps me understand the code. I think we should keep it.

> The fact that I wasn't able to understand why the algorithm gives the prescribed angle and also that it wasn't computing the correct rotation angle for a grid cell that I was constructing by hand via a rotation was making me skeptical when I was reviewing https://github.com/COSIMA/regional-mom6/pull/193. I mentioned this a few times, e.g., https://github.com/COSIMA/regional-mom6/pull/193#issuecomment-2649840854

Doesn't this PR fix this? That specific test works in Github Actions, you should be able to run the test you created without issues.

> So I suggest either of the following:
> 
> We remove the Boundary rotation algorithm section
> We ask whoever wrote the algorithm to explain to us and then we explain the algorithm in this section? I'm happy to ask, I just don't know who that is. Could we find from git blame of MOM6 code?

I think we should keep this section, it helps explain the steps of the code. We've also talked about this second question, We can git blame for the MOM6 code, but I'm not sure we need to take that step yet.

Reviewer: Hm... 

I don't understand what this part of the code does.

https://github.com/COSIMA/regional-mom6/blob/cdd3c2300c8251f9efee869b9e9bdd0fa795029b/regional_mom6/rotation.py#L171-L177

Why `angle` is given by that expression. The section of the documentation we are discussing supposedly explains it; for me it does not.

(The change of the sign btw adds to the mystery.)

If we don't understand this part, then how are we gonna explain it? If this section of the docs is only to help developers understand what the python code is supposed to be doing then does it belong as a comment in the source code?

Reviewer: I'd be very keen to ask somebody to explain to me. I'll try to spend some more time again to try to understand it. :(

Author: The negative sign is because this is a clockwise angle calculation, and our rotation calculations wants a counter-clockwise angle

Reviewer: Could you have a look at #209?

Author: Yup

> 4. Then we calculate the angle. This is a simple arctan2 so y/x.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Then we calculate the angle using `numpy.arctan2` from the ratio of the North-South and East-West distances.
```
